Title: About the author
Date: 2010-01-04 22:53
Author: isis agora lovecruft

My name is Isis Agora Lovecruft, and I'm in my early twenties. I do lots
of things and wander the planet.

I double majored in Theoretical Physics, and English Literature, with a
specialisation in Feminist Critical Theory. Some day, when I'm bored with my
current work and adventures, I'll continue my formal education to obtain a
doctorate in Theoretical Physics and contribute towards current research on
string cosmology and unified field theories. I'm also interested in
nanoscience research, quantum computing, and -- of course -- black hole
thermodynamics.

I am an anarchist! And when I say that, I do not simply mean that I would like
to see all States destroyed, social hierarchies crumble, and state capitalism
perish. I mean that *I believe inequalities in power dynamics pose a hindrance
to the progression of human thought and scientific understanding*, that the
overall degrees of freedom for collected conscious agents should be maximised,
and that all forms of government are intrinsically immoral due to their
disregard of individual consent. I don't believe in control even down to the
microcosmic, interpersonal level. Expressed more colloquially: "*fuck you,
you're not my dad! make total destroy! kill it with fire.*"

I write. I've been known to grace the interwebz (and occasionally print
publications) with my science fiction, memoirs and other tall tales of my
exploits and adventures, and erotica. Lately, I haven't had much time to write
stories readable by mere humans -- instead, I've been working on fairy tales
for little robots, in the hope that when they grow up, they'll be joining us
in *the rev*...or, at the very least, that they'll enable their human comrades
with means for free communication, privacy, anonymity, and all the digital
tricks and tools they'll need while making the world a bit saner.

I am also a musician. I have been classically trained at piano, and have
played for twenty years. I also busk on accordion, and lately I've been using
tape loops to make more experimental music.

I'm highly interested in cryptography and network security, and I occasionally
provide workshops and lectures on digital security topics for free to activist
groups. My research topics of interest are anonymity, secure communications,
quantum cryptography, plain ol' vanilla cryptography, darknets, steganography,
machine learning and neural networks, and pen-testing methodology.

### Contact

Please feel free to contact me with questions, bug reports, and proposals, or
for heated debates on any number of topics, potential friendship, and
collaboration! Though, please keep in mind that I'm doing *all of the things*,
so, if you're dangling from a burning rope over a shark tank, then I *might*
not be the best person to call.

      ∃!isisⒶwintermute:~ ∴ gpg --fingerprint --fingerprint isis@patternsinthevoid.net
      pub   4096R/A3ADB67A2CDB8B35 2011-09-09 [expires: 2016-09-07]
      Key fingerprint = 0A6A 58A1 4B59 46AB DE18  E207 A3AD B67A 2CDB 8B35
      uid               Isis! <isis@patternsinthevoid.net>
      uid               Isis <isis@torproject.org>
      uid               Isis <isis@leap.se>
      uid               Isis! <isis@riseup.net>
      sub   4096R/50C98D87B401100F 2011-09-09 [expires: 2013-09-07]
      Key fingerprint = A6DA 4A68 76AE 9355 EAFD  43F6 50C9 8D87 B401 100F
      sub   4096R/36DB24500B30EE69 2013-04-24 [expires: 2014-09-07]
      Key fingerprint = 9A89 F0C7 7C5E 82B1 4537  C8EA 36DB 2450 0B30 EE69
       
       
<br />

A signed, timestamped copy of my public GPG key is
[here](https://blog.patternsinthevoid.net/isis.txt).  That text file also
includes my public IRC handles and their current OTR keys, my Jabber/XMPP
accounts and their OTR keys, and in the future will include signed notices of
any key updates I decide to make.

    <(A)3 isis

