Title: About
Date: 2010-01-04 22:53
Author: Admin

[![][]][]

My name is Isis Agora Lovecruft, and I'm in my early twenties. I do lots
of things and wander to lots of places.

I double majored in Theoretical Physics, and English Literature, with a
specialization in Feminist Critical Theory. I intend to continue my
formal education, and I hope to eventually attain a doctorate in
Theoretical Physics and contribute towards current research on the
theoretics of time travel and unified field theories. I'm also
interested in nanoscience research, quantum cryptography, and string
cosmology.

I am an anarchist. When I say that I am an anarchist, I do not simply
mean that I would like to see the State destroyed, social hierarchies
crumble, and state capitalism perish. I mean that *I believe
inequalities in power dynamics pose a hindrance to the progression of
human thought and scientific understanding*, that the overall degrees of
freedom for collected conscious agents should be maximized, and that all
forms of government are intrinsically immoral due to their disregard of
individual consent. I do not believe in control even down to the
microcosmic, interpersonal level.

I am a writer. I write under a few names, because I enjoy playing with
ideas and do not wish some of my more memoir-ish pieces to identify or
define me, or my erotica to embarrass me at family reunions. I usually
write non-fiction, but sometimes I still get the chance to write science
fiction.

I am also a musician. I have been classically trained at piano, and have
played for twenty years. I also busk on accordion, and lately I've been
using tape loops to make more experimental music.

I'm highly interested in cryptography and security, and I occasionally
provide workshops and lectures on digital security topics for free to
activist groups. My research topics of interest are anonymity, secure
communications, quantum cryptography, plain ol' vanilla cryptography,
darknets, steganography, artificial intelligences and neural networks,
and pen-testing methodology.

### Contact

Please feel free to contact me with questions, bug reports, and
proposals, or for heated debates on any number of topics, potential
friendship, and collaboration!

Isis Lovecruft

Email = isis(at)patternsinthevoid(dot)net

GPG Public Key = [view key with embedded message][] [sig][]

Fingerprint = 0A6A 58A1 4B59 46AB DE18 E207 A3AD B67A 2CDB 8B35

Jabber/XMPP = isislovecruft(at)jabber(dot)ccc(dot)de

OTR Fingerprint = 5820B309 D91B771A E2BD71C8 083B60BC 3ED04C70

Jabber/XMPP ([over Tor Hidden Services][]) = isis(at)riseup(dot)net

OTR Fingerprint = 1AE139DA 3E4F46F9 BE745B66 0514DFB9 C61156F0

On Github = [isislovecruft][]

### Degrees of Crypto-Separation!

My GPG key is in the [strong set][], and you can check available trust
paths by entering your key ID into the box below!

Your Key ID :

\<(A)3

  []: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/01/photoofmeforwebcropped.jpg
    "photoofmeforwebcropped"
  [![][]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/01/photoofmeforwebcropped.jpg
  [view key with embedded message]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/2cdb8b35.pub.asc
  [sig]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/2cdb8b35.pub.sig.asc
  [over Tor Hidden Services]: https://help.riseup.net/en/chat
  [isislovecruft]: https://github.com/isislovecruft
  [strong set]: http://pgp.cs.uu.nl/plot/
