Title: Primitivists: GTFO!
Date: 2011-08-29 22:02
Author: Admin
Category: Anarchism
Tags: anarcho-transhumanism, anti-primitivism, cyberfeminism, cyborg manifesto, Donna Haraway, nanotechnology, naturalistic fallacy, primitivist theory, queer, William Godwin

The coupling of anarchism and primitivism within modern radical
discourse needs to be entirely deconstructed. First, I would like to
point out the obvious and inherent logical fallacies in this coalescence
of, on the one hand, an array of social movements whose sole unifying
ideological standpoint is an opposition to unequal power dynamics, and
on the other hand, a socio-cultural movement which openly advocates
biological essentialism, which translates to [insubstantiation of fluid
gender identities][] and other such destructions of personal freedom,
and the abolition of human creativity and inquiry through the "moral
obligation" for humans to "fill their niche" within a biosphere. This is
not even mentioning other troublesome logic within the primitivist
discourse, which I won't touch upon here, but will simply say, "Yo,
dudes, ever heard of this thing called the [naturalistic fallacy][]?
It's closely tied to other problematic and illogical argument forms like
[appeal to nature][] and [appeal to tradition][]...wait, were you
calling yourselves anarchists? Anarchists making *appeals to tradition*.
Yeah. Okay." Get the fuck out of my movement.

I'm concerned with freedom, not anthropocentrically, but f[reedom in a
broader sense of a maximization of informed agency][], which includes
taking into context the environment we all share. That's right, I said
it. I care about the trees; I care about the non-human and human
animals; I care about the cyborgs and the robots and the AIs. To quote
[*Queering the Singularity*][]: "Outside of hierarchy, a diversity of
legitimate life arrangements exist. We need a radical coalition capable
united action against the oppressors and a future vision that embraces
both reaching for the stars and returning to the woods."

But I don't care about you, primitivists. Can't you see that my way
still allows you to opt-out and go live in the woods? It's not the
scientists who are the enemy here, it's the goddamned State. So get the
fuck out, you primitivists, [you who go around bombing nanotechnology
research centers][], too blinded by your dogma to understand that
nanofabrication would provide methods of materials production while
drastically reducing mining and logging. If you can build atoms and
molecules from the particles up, why mine coal when you could literally
grow it in a lab? No, this isn't science fiction; welcome to the 21st
century. And why do you persist in subservience to "natural"
limitations? We need to look at what we are capable of, rather than rely
on frequency analysis of events. Yes, humans are, more often than not,
born as either male or female. Yes, governments cover every scrap of dry
land. But none of these have to be the case.

Also, your leader: [Yeah, he's cooperating with the FBI][]. Y'all were
saying something? Wait. I can't hear you. All I'm hearing is "We're a
bunch of fascistic, heteronormative, and illogical scum."

I'm going to cut this short because Donna Haraway rather elegantly
postulated (minus the socialist portions) my position twenty years ago
in ["A Cyborg Manifesto"][]. Read it. It's good. It's really, really
good.

Seriously, read ["A Cyborg Manifesto"][].

  [insubstantiation of fluid gender identities]: http://veganideal.org/content/lierre-keith-case-study-anti-trans-hatred
  [naturalistic fallacy]: https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Naturalistic_fallacy
  [appeal to nature]: https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Appeal_to_nature#Rational_argument
  [appeal to tradition]: https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Appeal_to_tradition
  [reedom in a broader sense of a maximization of informed agency]: http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/godwin/
  [*Queering the Singularity*]: https://queersingularity.wordpress.com/2011/06/26/transhumanism-and-the-radical-left-anarchist-skillshare-2011/
  [you who go around bombing nanotechnology research centers]: https://guerrillanews.wordpress.com/2011/08/17/anti-nanotech-bomb-claim-by-individualists-tending-towards-the-wild-mexico/
  [Yeah, he's cooperating with the FBI]: http://vancouver.mediacoop.ca/audio/deep-green-resistance-death-threats-and-police/8014
  ["A Cyborg Manifesto"]: https://www.stanford.edu/dept/HPS/Haraway/CyborgManifesto.html
