Title: Distractions!
Date: 2011-10-04 22:55
Author: Admin
Category: Anarchism, Physics
Tags: Anarchism, anarchist, fuck tha police, individualist anarchism, insurrectionism, newtonian physics, quantum physics, veganism, Werner Heisenberg

Physics
-------

Q: Why are quantum physicists so poor at sex?

A: Because when they find the position, they can't find the momentum,
and when they have the momentum, they can't find the position.

Heisenberg went for a drive and got stopped by a traffic cop. The cop
asked, "Do you know how fast you were going?" Heisenberg replied, "No,
but I know where I am."

Q: How many theoretical physicists specializing in general relativity
does it take to change a light bulb?

A: Two. One to hold the bulb and one to rotate the universe.

There is this farmer who is having problems with his chickens. All of
the sudden, they are all getting very sick and he doesn't know what is
wrong with them. After trying all conventional means, he calls a
biologist, a chemist, and a physicist to see if they can figure out what
is wrong. So the biologist looks at the chickens, examines them a bit,
and says he has no clue what could be wrong with them. Then the chemist
takes some tests and makes some measurements, but he can't come to any
conclusions either. So the physicist tries. He stands there and looks at
the chickens for a long time without touching them or anything. Then all
of the sudden he starts scribbling away in a notebook. Finally, after
several gruesome calculations, he exclaims, 'I've got it! But it only
works for spherical chickens in a vacuum.'

A student recognizes Einstein in a train and asks: Excuse me, professor,
but does New York stop at this train?

Researchers in Fairbanks Alaska announced last week that they have
discovered a superconductor which will operate at room temperature.

Psychopathic Physics Test:

Q: A shotgun shooting 12 pellets of 00 Buckshot weighing 4g leave the
barrel at 1125 fps. Assuming the average infant will absorb 127.3 f/lbs
before disintegrating, how many babies will the average blast cut
through (rounding off to the nearest whole number)?

A: eight.

Q: A 100 kg man is being swung by his entrails in a circle 16'in radius
at the rate of 1600 radians/sec. Find the tension in the man's entrails
(ignoring the effects of gravity).

A: 65,024 Newtons.

Q: A pagan priest attempts to vaporize a young virgin by placing her in
a flaming pit. Assuming the woman, weighing 120 lbs, is completely
composed of water, how much energy will he have to use to completely
vaporize her?

A: 130,000 BTU

Q: An infant has a tensile strength of 400 psi and has a cross sectional
area of 23.4 sq. inches. Assuming it is 23" long and has an elongation
percentage of .0036%/120psi at roomtemperature, how long will the baby
be before it is dismembered?

A: about 26.45 inches.

Q: A 12 year old blind orphan girl is shot from a cannon at the speed of
1200 fps at a solid brick wall. Calculate the force of impact given that
the brick wall is 3 feet away from the barrel.

A: If she weighs 50 lbs, and all of her sticks to the wall, 3.3 million
Newtons.

Q: A large plane weighing 12.7 M tons carrying 12 tons of nuns and
orphans travelling at 724.46 kph and at an altitude of 40,000 meters
suffers explosive decompression above the center of a 30km diameter
population. Assuming that one passenger is sucked out every second, how
many passengers will land within the population center?

A: about (give or take a torso or leg) 12.

Q: A 1000 lb car is moving at 130 mph and two poodles whose combined
weight is 82 lbs are thrown out the back at 3 mph. Calculate the
velocity of the car.

A: 140.91 happy mph.

Anarchism
---------

Q: Why do they bury cops six feet under?

A: Because deep down they're really good.

Q: What's the difference between a porcupine and a cop car?

A: The porcupine has its pricks on the outside.

Q: How do you make a cop sound like a dog?

A: Pour gas and light a match. WOOF.

Q: How do you make a cop cry?

A: Throw back the teargas canister.

Q: What's the worst thing about a squad car with two cops in it driving
off a cliff?

A: Squad cars seat at least four.

Q: How many insurrectionist anarchists does it take to change a
lightbulb?

A: The lightbulb cannot be changed, it must be smashed!

Q: How many crust punks does it take to change a lightbulb?

A: There's change in a lightbulb?

Q: How many tree-sitters does it take to screw in a lightbulb?

A: Tree-sitters don't screw in lightbulbs, silly; they screw in trees.

Q: How many individualist anarchists does it take to change a lightbulb?

A: One.

Q: How many hipsters does it take to screw in a lightbulb?

A: Ah, it's a really obscure number, man...you wouldn't know.

Q: How many vegans does it take to screw in a lightbulb?

A: I don't know, but where do you get your protein?

Q: Why did the primitivist move to Eugene?

A: He heard there was no work there.
