Title: Cartographic and Cryptographic
Date: 2011-09-22 20:37
Author: isis
Category: Art, Physics, Technology
Tags: cartography, cosmic microwave background, cosmology, crypto-anarchism, cryptography, Einstein, Einstein's Field Equations, extraterrestrial, ferrofluid, Gaussian curvature, general relativity, geodesic equation, magnetic tattoo, munitions, nanotechnology, observable universe, perl, python, RSA, suicide, tattoo, voyager

Sometimes I nerd out on tattoo ideas.

I really want some sort of tattoo that's geeky, scientific/mathematical,
and also goes with my body shape. Like the equation for Gaussian
Curvature, tattooed along the curve from my waist to my hip:

![K][]

![=][]

![1/(2g)[2(partial\^2F)/(partialupartialv)-(partial\^2E)/(partialv\^2)-(partial\^2G)/(partialu\^2)]-G/(4g\^2)[(partialE)/(partialu)(2(partialF)/(partialv)-(partialG)/(partialu))-((partialE)/(partialv))\^2]+F/(4g\_2)[(partialE)/(partialu)(partialG)/(partialv)-2(partialE)/(partialv)(partialG)/(partialu)+(2(partialF)/(partialu)-(partialE)/(partialv))(2(partialF)/(partialv)-(partialG)/(partialu))]-E/(4g\^2)[(partialG)/(partialv)(2(partialF)/(partialu)-(partialE)/(partialv))-((partialG)/(partialu))\^2].][]

I also want Einstein's geodesic and [field equations][] tattooed onto my
wrists as anti-suicide tattoos. To remind me that I still have things to
fix before trying [the old piano-wire-and-superglue trick][]. The
Einstein field equation is usually expressed as:

[![][]][]and the geodesic-as-the-shortest-curve equation is usually
written as:

[![][1]][]

Or, another[![][2]][] idea was to [tattoo the RSA cryptographic
algorithm][] written in three lines of Perl (which used to be legally
classified as a munition), on my bicep, so that I could flex and say,
"Check out my guns!"

Actually, I'd probably get it tattooed in Python, because Perl usually
makes my brain feel like it's doing loopdy-loops in my skull. I mean,
regular expressions tend to do that, no matter what the parent language
is.

`#!/usr/local/bin/python -- -export-a-crypto-system-sig -RSA-in-4-lines-Python from sys import*;from string import*;a=argv;[s,p,q]=filter(lambda x:x[:1]!= '-',a);d='-d'in a;e,n=atol(p,16),atol(q,16);l=(len(q)+1)/2;o,inb=l-d,l-1+d while s:s=stdin.read(inb);s and map(stdout.write,map(lambda i,b=pow(reduce( lambda x,y:(x<>8*i&255),range(o-1,-1,-1)))`

That photograph is of a crypto-anarchist named James Melvin, who's cuter
than a spaceship full of robotic kittens.

And speaking of spaceships, what's cooler than maps of where the Earth
is? This one shows Earth's location with respect to the observable
universe in the cosmic microwave background:

[![][3]][]

[![][4]][][![][5]][]Neat, but not feasibly tattooable. Also, not exactly
readable to extraterrestrial intelligences either. But thankfully, NASA
already made an illustration of where Earth's Sun is, which would be
readable by aliens, and [they made plaques of it][], which were launched
with the Voyager 10 and Voyager 11 spacecraft. The graph uses the
locations of 14 pulsars to show the Sun's precise location. And someone
else beat me to the tattoo, but whatever. I'm getting it anyway.

I haven't gotten any of these yet, though, because years ago I
discovered a patent for nanoparticle ferrofluid tattoo ink. Basically,
it would work like this: You take ferrofluid, which is a "fluid" made of
nano-sized particles of iron, which is magnetic. Ferrofluids are really
neat. If you've never heard of them before, you should [check them
out][]. Anyway. So, then you coat the ferrofluid in three triangles of
different colours, and then coat in in another layer of some transparent
bioproofing agent. Because the individual particles are magnetic, you
can rotate them to corresponding colours with magnets at three specific
frequencies. Then you tattoo yourself with the stuff, not lines or
pictures, but a whole solid area. You then use the magnets to rotate the
spheres to the desired colour. It's like being a human etch-a-sketch! So
cool! If you chose one colour to be similar to your skin tone, you could
even erase your tattoos, and don't get me started on all the ways that
could come in handy.

The reason that nobody's done this yet is because current medical
imaging technology is mostly based around high-powered magnets, for
instance, MRI. If you had nanoparticle ferrofluid tattoos and you got an
MRI, your skin would boil off. Heh. It's *only a minor complication*,
right?

  [K]: http://mathworld.wolfram.com/images/equations/GaussianCurvature/Inline18.gif
  [=]: http://mathworld.wolfram.com/images/equations/GaussianCurvature/Inline19.gif
  [1/(2g)[2(partial\^2F)/(partialupartialv)-(partial\^2E)/(partialv\^2)-(partial\^2G)/(partialu\^2)]-G/(4g\^2)[(partialE)/(partialu)(2(partialF)/(partialv)-(partialG)/(partialu))-((partialE)/(partialv))\^2]+F/(4g\_2)[(partialE)/(partialu)(partialG)/(partialv)-2(partialE)/(partialv)(partialG)/(partialu)+(2(partialF)/(partialu)-(partialE)/(partialv))(2(partialF)/(partialv)-(partialG)/(partialu))]-E/(4g\^2)[(partialG)/(partialv)(2(partialF)/(partialu)-(partialE)/(partialv))-((partialG)/(partialu))\^2].]:
    http://mathworld.wolfram.com/images/equations/GaussianCurvature/Inline20.gif
  [field equations]: https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Einstein_field_equations
  [the old piano-wire-and-superglue trick]: http://uncyclopedia.wikia.com/wiki/HowTo:Commit_Suicide#Method_7:_Emotionally_Disturbing_Piano_Wire_Beheading
  []: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/fieldequation.png
    "fieldequation"
  [![][]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/fieldequation.png
  [1]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/geodesicequation.png
    "geodesicequation"
  [![][1]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/geodesicequation.png
  [2]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/tattoo3-300x225.jpg
    "tattoo3"
  [![][2]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/tattoo3.jpg
  [tattoo the RSA cryptographic algorithm]: http://www.cypherspace.org/rsa/
  [3]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Earths_Location_in_the_Universe_SMALLER_JPEG-1024x512.jpg
    "Earth's_Location_in_the_Universe_SMALLER_(JPEG)"
  [![][3]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Earths_Location_in_the_Universe_SMALLER_JPEG.jpg
  [4]: ../wp-content/uploads/2011/09/pulsargrey2-179x300.jpg
    "pulsargrey"
  [![][4]]: ../wp-content/uploads/2011/09/pulsargrey2.jpg
  [5]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/pioneerplaquegrey-300x235.png
    "pioneerplaquegrey"
  [![][5]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/pioneerplaquegrey.png
  [they made plaques of it]: https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Pioneer_plaque#Relative_position_of_the_Sun_to_the_center_of_the_Galaxy_and_14_pulsars
  [check them out]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XUz1ZI-w6LQ
