Title: Defcon Report Back, Intro
Date: 2011-08-08 15:28
Author: isis
Category: Technology
Tags: black hat con, certificate authority, convergenge, Defcon, dr. zoz, fuck them, gender identity, hacking, las vegas, security

I'm sitting in McCarren Internation Airport in [Las Vegas, Nevada][],
killing the next two hours over a slow 3G connection. This was my first
time going to [Defcon][]. I remember watching videos of Defcon talks on
my home-built computer when I was nine or so. In fifth grade, I had a
crush on [Zoz][]. I don't remember why I thought they were the shit –
maybe it was the
skinny-nerdy-queerish-blond-mohawk-hacker-person-who-makes-fake-crop-circles-for-their-Ph.D.-thesis
thing. I really wanted to go to MIT at that age, and Zoz was my hero.
Hey, don't make fun of me. I was nine, okay?

Hop in your [blue telephone box][] and skip forward a decade or so, and
I'm at my first Defcon. It was also my first time staying in Las Vegas.
Fuck this town. It's everything that went wrong with capitalism
amplified and tarballed into a single sexism-infected package, wrapped
in a sick slime of wealth, extreme classism, greed, extra sexism (for
good measure), and a heaping sporkful of objectification of
female-bodied folk on the side. Fuck. You. Las. Vegas.

And fuck everyone who assumes that I'm a girl because I currently live
in a female-body. Fuck all the time burglars who think it's okay to talk
to me without asking if I feel social. Fuck the bro-”hacker”s who think
it's okay to buy me drinks – and then try to talk to me! – as if I
desired either one. Fuck the goon who asked if my face tattoo was real,
and then licked his finger and wiped my face...after I had declined his
marriage proposition. Fuck the socially inept geek boys who think
hugging/touching me without consent is okay, just because I can geek out
on neural networks, exploit-dev, 0-days, and cryptography. Don't any of
you turd-gurglers realize that I have anxiety issues on top of
neurological problems, and the former is caused by sexual and physical
abuse at the hands of males? I don't know, maybe something about my body
language, the fact that I clench my fists and stand five feet away from
whoever I'm talking to? Might be a hint, I don't know. And fuck the
people who indiscriminately referred to me as she, even after syntax
correction. Fuck that fed that thought it was okay to ask me a bunch of
sketchy questions, then not pick up on my disinclination towards
communication, then ask me if I wanted to come to his hotel room and
take E and huff nitrous. Sorry, dude. [I don't fucking talk to feds.][]
I don't talk to [people who work for the Department of Homeland
Security][]. I don't give out any information to military, or [military
contractors][]. I don't talk to [cops][]. I piss on [cop
sympathizers][]. Fuck the [sociopathic prison industry contractors][].
Fuck you all. Not my team. Not my fucking team.

/rant

So, the talks at defcon were highly informative, and it was incredibly
refreshing to temporarily be part of a community where a laptop and a
pile of tangled cords draped over your legs, a text-only screen with a
terminal multiplexer and code editor open, a tethered cell phone, and
output flying by on active port scans is completely expected and normal.
No one thought it was crazy to carry multiple hard drives and wireless
cards instead of business cards and lipstick. NOP-sled and buffer
overflow jokes abounded. (My friend, Flatline, kept belting out with "Oh
girl! You rode a NOP-sled into my heart! Your buffer overflows rewrite
my emotional code! Then you injected a string, and now you're in for
good!" in the conference space hallways.) No one thought twice about
lockpicks in my dreads, or the 32GB USB key earring in my ear. No one
gave me puzzled looks if they saw me remove my credit cards or passport
from their aluminum foil homemade-Faraday-cage enclosure...well, with
the exception of that vendor selling RFID disabling wallets after I told
all of their potential customers about the unbelievable magic of tin
foil. Oopsies, sorry man. It's what you get for ripping people off.

And I just want to say, before I get on to talking about the
presentations, that my tech-positive and hacker anarchist friends are
awesome. You are all cuter than robots, and I'm sorry if sometimes I
call you broken robots for not answering my obscure and complicated
queries on the fly. I also got a chance to hang out with my friend
[Moxie Marlinspike][], a wonderful hacker and cryptographer who also has
radical politics. (Check out his[new project to replace the Certificate
Authority][] verification system.) We went to some schmoozy fancy-pants
restaurant and couldn't really eat much because we both have Celiac's
Disease. Then we went to some douchey [Black Hat Con][] VIP invite-only
party on a rooftop, where there were white hats failing at being cool,
smoking cigars and drinking cocktails. Well, I probably don't need to
say that the white hats fail at being cool, because they're the
definition of fail. Basically, for those who haven't gathered this much
yet, Black Hat Con is exactly the same as Defcon. Same presentations,
same speakers, mostly the same workshops. The only difference is that
Black Hat Con costs \$2000 and is marketed as a "security conference",
whereas Defcon costs \$150 cash, up front, and is called a "hacker
conference". So, the corporate drones pay for their white hat schmoes to
go to the "security conference". Black Hat Con paid for Moxie's room,
which inclued a “jacuzzi” in the bathroom, which ended up being a
half-hour discussion with occasional googling and wikipeding to backup
claims on the correct definition of a jacuzzi. And, Moxie: it might be
made by Jacuzzi Inc., but [it's still a bathtub][], yo.  Just sayin'.

  [Las Vegas, Nevada]: http://www.uwec.edu/geography/ivogeler/w188/lasvegas/v18.htm
  [Defcon]: https://www.defcon.org/html/defcon-19/dc-19-index.html
  [Zoz]: http://web.mit.edu/newsoffice/2002/crops-1009.html
  [blue telephone box]: http://hacks.mit.edu/by_year/2010/tardis/
  [I don't fucking talk to feds.]: http://www.deathandtaxesmag.com/127506/an-open-letter-to-defcon-hackers-dont-sell-out-to-the-nsa/
  [people who work for the Department of Homeland Security]: http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2009/06/hacker-dark-tangent-joins-dhs-security-council/
  [military contractors]: http://www.thehackernews.com/2011/08/pentagon-launches-cyber-fast-track.html
  [cops]: https://encrypted.google.com/search?q=cops+kill&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&aq=t&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&client=firefox-a#q=cops+kill&hl=en&client=firefox-a&hs=UXe&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&prmd=ivnsu&source=univ&tbm=nws&tbo=u&sa=X&ei=LLJATqy-OeXZiALW5cDHBQ&ved=0CCcQqAI&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.&fp=31db879d6906bc09&biw=1280&bih=607
  [cop sympathizers]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7zQ8lcgxeZk
  [sociopathic prison industry contractors]: http://strauchs-llc.com/about.shtml
  [Moxie Marlinspike]: http://thoughtcrime.org/
  [new project to replace the Certificate Authority]: http://convergence.io/details.html
  [Black Hat Con]: https://www.blackhat.com/html/bh-us-11/bh-us-11-home.html
  [it's still a bathtub]: http://www.jacuzzi.com/baths/options/models/cetra
