Title: DIY Transhumanist Biohacker
Date: 2011-01-31 18:30
Author: Admin
Category: Technology
Tags: Cybernetics for the Masses, DIY Biohacking, Lepht Anonym, meathacking, Portland Research Club, Sensebridge, transhumanism

[caption id="attachment\_476" align="alignright" width="186"
caption="Lepht Anonym speaking on Cybernetics For The
Masses"][![][]][][/caption]

A [DIY biohacker][] in England, Lepht Anonym, has been experimenting in
self-surgury in their (I use 'they' in the singular sense, as I have
noted that they use gender neutral pronouns in reference to themself on
[their blog][]) own kitchen. Anonym has successfully implanted small
metal plates, made of neodymium and encapsulated in gold and silicon, in
nine of their ten fingers, in order to sense electromagnetic currents.
They give recommendations on bioproofing materials, used to encase the
implants to prevent chemical reactions like rusting from occurring
subcutaneously, advocating the use of a silicon gel, Sugru, but stating
that hot-gun glue works well, too.

Lepht's current project is based on [Sensebridge's][] [Northpaw
project][], a wearable device that provides vibration to give
information on the direction of Earth's magnetic north. Similarly, my
friends over at Portland [Research Club][] are working on a wearable
system of vibrating sensors which take GPS information from the user's
Smartphone to provide the wearer with an extra-sensory perception of
their friends' locations. Lepht Anonym's project will be to implant an
electronic compass attached to neural-grade electrodes near their left
knee. They're calling the project Southpaw.

I find Lepht's creativity, curiosity, and fearlessness absolutely
inspiring. Instead of the usual (although still admirable) idealistic
theories of transhumanists on the future of converging technologies and
their biological applications, Lepht has taken a more practical
approach: start with what you have, and work from there. “The existing
transhumanist movement is lame. It’s nano everything. It’s just ideas,”
she says. “Anyone can do this. This is kitchen stuff.” Lepht, you are
amazing, and I hope everything works well in your Southpaw project and
all your future endeavours. The world needs more (trans)humans like you!

See also: these videos are Anonym's lecture "Cybernetics for the
Masses."

  []: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/lepht-anonym.jpg
    "lepht anonym"
  [![][]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/lepht-anonym.jpg
  [DIY biohacker]: http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2010/12/transcending-the-human-diy-style/
  [their blog]: http://sapiensanonym.blogspot.com/
  [Sensebridge's]: http://sensebridge.net/
  [Northpaw project]: http://sensebridge.net/projects/northpaw/
  [Research Club]: http://researchclub.posterous.com/
