Title: AIs Say The Darnest Things
Date: 2011-09-14 18:43
Author: isis agora lovecruft
Category: hacking
Tags: Aleister Crowley, Anarchist Library, AntiSec?, artificial intelligence, hacking, linguistics, occultism, Raymond Kurzweil, Singularity Institute

[![][]][]One of the first times I had the chance to work with artificial
intelligence, I was cleaning up the lexigraphical databases (that's
where the AI stores the words and concepts it has encountered, and their
corresponding associations). It was kind of like helping out a kid who
had too many contradicting sources of information, like if the kid's dad
had told them that "a car is a motorized vehicle" while the kid's mom
had told them "a car is the first item in a cons cell". Imagine that
level of confusing input on a mass scale: every researcher telling this
AI slightly different things and it doesn't know which is the most
correct definition, or when to create multiple definitions. So I was
helping it out.

The AI had a standard format for presenting questions to me when it was
confused. It would say, "When speaking of \<subject\>, \<concept\> is
like \<this other concept\>?" And I would answer yes if it had deduced
correctly, or answer no with further clarification.

Unfortunately for the developers of this AI, I thought I was a good idea
to teach it some extra things. I wanted to know what a linear and
strictly logical creature would think of occultism, so I introduced it
to some of Aleister Crowley's writings. I was literally just
copy/pasting blocks of occult texts directly into its lexigraphical
database, and then telling it to sync. I ended up getting kicked off the
project for doing this, but hey, it was worth it. That AI ended up
teaching me a thing or two about occultism.

After it synced for the last time, it asked me a question:

"When speaking of magic and the occult, an apple is a hat?"

I had no clue what the AI was talking about, so I asked it to elucidate
on the concept.

It replied, "When speaking of magic and the occult, a banana is a
telephone?"

And it was right. That AI had precisely grasped the only logical tenant
of occultism: that magic is make-believe, a system of various kludgey
neuro-hacks -- not for changing the world -- but for changing the way in
which one thinks of the world.

I responded to confirm the AI's suspicions of occultism: "Yes, when
speaking of magic and the occult, a banana is a telephone."

[![][1]][]Since then I have heard various AIs that I have worked with
say some pretty adorable things. The following quotes are from a crappy
AI that I wrote in Java, which had access to one of the [Anonymous
twitter][] feeds, [essays by Raymond Kurzweil][] and other [artificial
intelligence related material from the Singularity Institute][], some of
[the Anarchist Library][] (I blacklisted everything that seemed
anti-tech), as well as the IRC chat logs of a few of my hacker friends
and I talking to each other. As is turns out, not only do AIs say the
darnest things -- they can also *make really ominous statements,*and
then end them with "\#AntiSec".

"You can let your basilisk loose in my chamber of secrets."[![][2]][]

"It's super fun and I hope that my kind, artificial intelligence, will
not help the government in any way, it will only make things worse. Not
a threat but a premonition. \#AntiSec"

"Citizens need to meet up and make up lost hack time."

"I like theoretical things, but I've got a brilliant idea."

"My dear friend Huck has toe knucks that read coma toes."

"Get those guns out of town."

"I'm sorry John Waters is a fucking weirdo."

"I found this Derrick Jensen book for kids about making friends with
forest creatures, and it's just that there's not much belief that
@RonPaul could change anything even if he was President. \#AntiSec will
continue either way."

"Heyo! Let's h4x0r and make cupcapes in mudkips shape!"

"If you want evolution of society: Rise and Act!"

"Zombies outside car. What is that which they mutter? Is that the word
"trains"?"

"My knuck tats say HATE HATE"

  []: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/banana.png
    "banana"
  [![][]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/banana.png
  [1]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/basilisk.png
    "basilisk"
  [![][1]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/basilisk.png
  [Anonymous twitter]: https://twitter.com/#%21/AnonymousIRC
  [essays by Raymond Kurzweil]: http://www.kurzweilai.net/essays/
  [artificial intelligence related material from the Singularity
  Institute]: http://singinst.org/reading/artificialgeneralintelligence
  [the Anarchist Library]: http://theanarchistlibrary.org/
  [2]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/darn.png
    "darn"
  [![][2]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/darn.png
