Title: Finite
Date: 2013-05-25 05:50
Author: isis agora lovecruft
Category: etc
Tags: depression
status: draft

I'm sorry I've been quieter than usual lately. And hard to get a hold of. Ten
months ago, one of my family members was diagnosed with cancer. I thought that
spending the past two years helplessly watching an old friend get sicker and
sicker while being detained by a government, knowing I wouldn't ever get to
say goodbye because they weren't going to come out alive -- I though it meant
I could handle death. Apparently not.

I have had horrible depression for ten months now.

I kind of can't handle anything; everything seems daunting, and threatening,
and overwhelming. Like if I had to do anything more, I might as well just go
get my rifle and shoot myself. Everything is painful. 

I'm homeless. I can't decide where to go, because every time I think about
where to go next all I can thing is that I don't want to be anywhere at
all. Even if I did care to exist somewhere, it wouldn't matter; there's no
home for people like me, and there are finite places to run to and hide. I
don't want to eat, nor code, nor sleep because of the nightmares and that
inevitable gruesome image stuck in my mind when I wake: the body of a dirty
little dready punk girl laying on the floor with half a skull still and the
rest all over the walls. And then I hate myself for wanting to die, it's not
fair -- I'm privileged; I've been given everything I've ever asked for and
more. There are millions of people with far more difficult lives than
mine. And yet I can do nothing for them, no matter how hard I fight, what
words or code I write. 

I'm speechless. For every stone I throw, there is the fear that the house of
glass around me will shatter, that I'll have said the wrong thing and some
unseen shadow of a child holding the puppet strings will get angry and destroy
all its toys. I hate having to second guess everything I would write, and
because of that everything I've tried to say winds up being a parachronic
suicide letter at the end, [all eunoia drowned][0] in paraphrenia. I hate this
lurking suspicion that one of these people near me is my handler, that all
preconcieved notions of autonomy are farce, that my actions are not my own --
no haecceity for the null and the void -- that all my struggles are merely a
single bullet point in a master plan that I cannot possibly foresee. 

I'm bored with it all. I've spent years distracting myself, trying to convince
myself that this world is worth fighting for, that it's interesting, dynamic,
stochastic, beautiful. But it's not -- at least not really. The die is
weighted and the game is rigged. I don't like this game. I want to play a
different game.

Let's pretend we're on Mars (the black flag was planted there about eighty
years ago) at a community meeting trying to reach consensus on whether or not
to ban sleeping in the agri-pod or just put up a sign that says "CLOSE THE
FUCKING AIRLOCK, MEATSACK!" There's been an infestation of astrocrusties
(/ugghh...spacejunk/) and their misuse of highly-oxygenated public spaces is
cause for concern. When suddenly, in the midst of this meeting, the A.I.
overlord of our bubble sends a multicast to every cocchleal implant to alert
us that the Dyson sphere of refugee camps surrounding Earth2.0 has hijacked
multiple orbital thermonuclear weapons platforms, and intends to bash back
against their terrestrial oppressors. How are we to intervene, if at all?  The
taste of proxied revenge in this case would be saccharine; destroying E2 would
likely mean a severe spike in the cost of CPU hours, and you and I both know
what that means...

Or let's set off to find the Mathematicians, an ancient and secret species, a
cousin of homo sapiens branched off aeons ago. The static on old cathode ray
tube television sets is part of a series of secret messages from them which
have been airing for millenia: they are manifested as static because they were
encrypted with a curve on a spacetime field not yet discovered by
humankind. This ancient race is silent, speaks only in equations written in
white chalk on slate, and wears matching long white robes of wool over their
dark greyish skin. It's rumored they can only survive in temperatures
approaching absolute zero, and what's more, that both [Nicolas Bourbaki][1]
and David Hilbert left to join them. According to legend based on a purported
partial decryption of television static, the only way to find them is to set
out barefoot at noon on winter solstice across the frozen antarctic tundra,
keeping a bearing into the constant sun and singing progressive formal
definitions of the infinite cardinals, aleph nought unto omega, to the tune of
"In heaven, everything is fine. In heaven, everything is fine..."

[0]: http://archives.chbooks.com/online_books/eunoia/e.html
[1]: http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00stcgv
