Title: Opera & Transhumanism II
Date: 2010-12-31 01:40
Author: isis agora lovecruft
Category: etc
Tags: artificial intelligence, bioinformatics, biotechnology, brain-machine interfacing, cognitive science, emergence theory, environmentalism, ethics, linguistics, nanotechnology, NBIC report, neurocomputing, quantum physics, retinal prosthesis, robotics, transhumanism

[][][![][]][][The NBIC Report][] (click for full .pdf) was the published
result of a U.S. government sponsored conference on converging
technologies applicable to improving human performance: *"The chief
areas of application include: expanding human cognition and
communication, improving human health and physical capabilities,
enhancing group and societal outcomes, strengthening national security,
and unifying science and education. Convergence will be based on the
material unity of nature at the nanoscale, technology integration from
the nanoscale, key transforming tools, the concept of reality as closely
coupled hierarchical complex systems, and the goal to improve human
performance."*

It was released in 2002, so those of you who are up-to-date on current
research should skip ahead to the more current research articles I will
post below. Everybody else, I highly recommend at least flipping through
the table of contents and reading the more interesting articles, such as
"Spatial Cognition and Converging Technologies", "Sociable Technologies:
Enhancing Human Performance When the Computer is not a Tool but a
Companion", and "Brain-Machine Interfacing". Other papers included in
the NBIC Report are borderline frightening, for instance, "High
Performance Warfighter", "DARPA's Programs in Enhancing Human
Performance", or "Socio-Tech...The Predictive Science of Societal
Behavior" and its comments on government usage of using predictive
sociological algorithms to stop "terrorism" before it occurs. Obviously,
it is extremely important for us radically-minded anti-government
individuals to be well versed in current technological research: these
are the tools which will be used to subjugate us tomorrow. If we learn
about them now, we may influence their usage and possibly even
effectively use them for positive change.

More information and current research articles after the jump!

Now that you're busy with that 482-page monster of a pdf, here's some
more recent research. I realize I might get in trouble for this, so I'm
going to say in advance: "Oops, sorry, I didn't realize these were
copyrighted." I have the privilege of research access to numerous
academic journals, and, unfortunately for the publishers, I do not
believe that only those with disposable finances should have access to
knowledge and educational materials. So here you go, read up!

Also, in keeping with the topic, I would highly recommend listening to
opera while reading this stuff. Or Wagner. I'm kidding, I think.

**Bioinformatics**(click for downloadable .pdfs)

[(2010) Bioinformatic and experimental survey of 14-3-3-binding sites][]

[(2010) Bioinformatic workflow system for large data sets][]

[(2010) Functional Impact of Transposable Elements Using Bioinformatic
Analysis][]

[(2010) GMOD Drupal Bioinformatics Server][]

**Implants and Prosthetics** (click for downloadable .pdfs)

[(2009) Feasibility Study of a Retinal Prosthesis][]

**Nanotechnology** (click for downloadable .pdfs)

[(2010) MEMS, Sensors, and Nanotechnology][]

[(2010) Responsibility and Nanotechnology][]

[(2010) Nanotechnology in textiles][]

[(2010) Nanotechnology: Molecular robots on the move][]

[(2010) New Products: Focus on Nanoscience and Nanotechnology][]

[(2010) Nanotechnology and its applications in surgery][]

[(2010) Nanotechnology Makes Strides in Quantum Dots, Medicine][]

[(2010) Nanotechnology, Bionanotechnology and Microbial Cell
Factories][]

[(2010) Research Advances: Nanotechnology Research Attacks Cancer,
Offers Big Development in Light Harvesting, and Addresses the 3Rs:
Recover, Recycle, and Reuse][]

[(2009) The University of California Center for the Environmental
Implications of Nanotechnology][]

[(2009) Combining Instrumental and Contextual Approaches: Nanotechnology
and Sustainable Development][]

[(2009) Quantum Nanotechnology][]

**Cognitive Science and Brain-Computer Interfacing** (click for .pdfs)

[(2008) Neurocomputing: On linking human and machine brains][]

[(2009) A world survey of artificial brain projects, Part I: Large-scale
brain simulations][]

[(2009) A world survey of artificial brain projects, Part II:
Biologically inspired cognitive architectures][]

[(2009) A neural mechanism for human language processing][]

[(2009) Sentence generation for artificial brains: A glocal
similarity-matching approach][]

[(2009) Anthony Chemero: Radical Embodied Cognitive Science][]

[(2010) Emergence and reduction in dynamical cognitive science][][][1]

[(2010) Developing Creativity: Artificial Barriers in Artificial
Intelligence][1]

  []: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/NBIC_report.pdf
  []: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/nbic.jpg
    "nbic"
  [![][]]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/nbic.jpg
  [(2010) Bioinformatic and experimental survey of 14-3-3-binding
  sites]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Bioinformatic-and-experimental-survey-of-14-3-3-binding-sites.pdf
  [(2010) Bioinformatic workflow system for large data sets]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Bioinformatic-workflow-system-for-large-data-sets.pdf
  [(2010) Functional Impact of Transposable Elements Using Bioinformatic
  Analysis]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Functional-Impact-of-Transposable-Elements-Using-Bioinformatic-Analysis.pdf
  [(2010) GMOD Drupal Bioinformatics Server]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-GMOD-Drupal-Bioinformatics-Server.pdf
  [(2009) Feasibility Study of a Retinal Prosthesis]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-Feasibility-Study-of-a-Retinal-Prosthesis.pdf
  [(2010) MEMS, Sensors, and Nanotechnology]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-MEMS-Sensors-and-Nanotechnology.pdf
  [(2010) Responsibility and Nanotechnology]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Responsibility-and-Nanotechnology.pdf
  [(2010) Nanotechnology in textiles]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Nanotechnology-in-textiles.pdf
  [(2010) Nanotechnology: Molecular robots on the move]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Nanotechnology_Molecular-robots-on-the-move.pdf
  [(2010) New Products: Focus on Nanoscience and Nanotechnology]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-New-Products_Focus-on-Nanoscience-and-Nanotechnology.pdf
  [(2010) Nanotechnology and its applications in surgery]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Nanotechnology-and-its-applications-in-surgery.pdf
  [(2010) Nanotechnology Makes Strides in Quantum Dots, Medicine]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Nanotechnology-Makes-Strides-in-Quantum-Dots-Medicine.pdf
  [(2010) Nanotechnology, Bionanotechnology and Microbial Cell
  Factories]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Nanotechnology-Bionanotechnology-and-Microbial-Cell-Factories.pdf
  [(2010) Research Advances: Nanotechnology Research Attacks Cancer,
  Offers Big Development in Light Harvesting, and Addresses the 3Rs:
  Recover, Recycle, and Reuse]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Research-Advances_Nanotechnology-Research-Attacks-Cancer-Offers-Big-Development-in-Light-Harvesting-and-Addresses-the-3Rs_Recover-Recycle-and-Reuse.pdf
  [(2009) The University of California Center for the Environmental
  Implications of Nanotechnology]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-The-University-of-California-Center-for-the-Environmental-Implications-of-Nanotechnology.pdf
  [(2009) Combining Instrumental and Contextual Approaches:
  Nanotechnology and Sustainable Development]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-Combining-Instrumental-and-Contextual-Approaches_Nanotechnology-and-Sustainable-Development.pdf
  [(2009) Quantum Nanotechnology]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-Quantum-Nanotechnology.pdf
  [(2008) Neurocomputing: On linking human and machine brains]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2008-Neurocomputing_On-linking-human-and-machine-brains.pdf
  [(2009) A world survey of artificial brain projects, Part I:
  Large-scale brain simulations]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-A-world-survey-of-artificial-brain-projects-Part1_Large-scale-brain-simulations.pdf
  [(2009) A world survey of artificial brain projects, Part II:
  Biologically inspired cognitive architectures]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-A-world-survey-of-artificial-brain-projects-Part-II_Biologically-inspired-cognitive-architectures.pdf
  [(2009) A neural mechanism for human language processing]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-A-neural-mechanism-for-human-language-processing.pdf
  [(2009) Sentence generation for artificial brains: A glocal
  similarity-matching approach]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-Sentence-generation-for-artificial-brains_A-glocal-similarity-matching-approach.pdf
  [(2009) Anthony Chemero: Radical Embodied Cognitive Science]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2009-Anthony-Chemero_-Radical-Embodied-Cognitive-Science.pdf
  [(2010) Emergence and reduction in dynamical cognitive science]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Emergence-and-reduction-in-dynamical-cognitive-science.pdf
  [1]: http://www.patternsinthevoid.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/2010-Developing-Creativity_Artificial-Barriers-in-Artificial-Intelligence.pdf
