Title: Opera & Transhumanism
Date: 2010-12-24 20:20
Author: isis agora lovecruft
Category: etc
Tags: Edgar Allen Poe, John Adams, John Donne, opera, Rachmaninoff, tape loops

Because I am visiting my folks for the holidays. Because I can't sleep.
Because the suburbs aren't all too exploration and adventure friendly.
Because who really wants to call up their old high school friends from
their hometown anyway? I've been left to myself for quite some time now,
and this is what I have come up with to entertain myself. I will spare
you the details and equations of the cosmology textbook I'm working
through, and present the arguably more interesting: literature themed
operas and government transhumanism conferences.

One of the best operas ever composed, in my opinion, is Sergei
Rachmaninoff's Opus 35, called in English "The Bells". It was written as
an operatic interpretation of the [Edgar Allen Poe poem][] of the same
title. The opera and the poem are both structured into four segments:
the first, whimsical sleigh bells after a snowfall; the second, wedding
bells (yuck...talk about doom and gloom...well, maybe just doom...); the
third, alarm bells (think cavalry brigade torching a village at
midnight, or potential nuclear attack sirens in the 40s); the fourth,
funeral bells. The third are fourth parts are obviously the only parts
worth listening to, so I'm only going to post links to those.

This led me to discover the composer John Adams and his minimalist
choral piece "Harmonium". From a reviewer: "John Adams is considered the
emancipator of strict minimalism, and really has done much for the
genre. This work contains many of the usual techniques: repetitive,
"mantra"-like rhythms, slow building harmonies and slow harmonic rhythm,
all with inner drive and vitality. The three-movement cantata Harmonium,
uses the poem [Negative Love by John Donne][] and Because I Could Not
Stop for Death and Wild Nights by Emily Dickenson. Negative Love begins
with highly repeated nonsense syllables which eventually turn into the
actual text. Adams starts on a unison note and adds notes little by
little. When the text comes in, a chanting quality begins. Eventually a
two against three, poly-tonality choral interplay segues into a reprise
of the nonsense syllables, all of which builds into a grand climax and
fades away, ending peacefully. Usually without melodies, the second
movement shows Adams at his most tuneful in Because I Could Not Stop for
Death. Death picks up the speaker of the text for a slow carriage ride
to eternity. They pass various life sequences, but the musical carriage
ride never quickens until the mention of eternity. The creeping, and
somewhat tuneful movement segues into the wild, orgiastic Wild Nights.
After a wild orchestral build-up, voices in extreme high registers,
portray the ecstasy of the text in a passionate fervor. Waves of
crescendos and decrescendos make a tumultuous rhythmic feeling. The work
ends peacefully flowing with texts of rowing and the sea."

Alright, that's enough of that. I then found out about Adams' more
recent piece, "On the transmigration of souls", sung by a children's
choir, which *uses tape loops*. Okay, Mister Adams, tape loops and
children singing about death? You sure as hell have more goth points
than me. And you might be awesome.

And, and, and! This is getting long, and I very much doubt anyone has
made it through all that opera, so I'm going to put the transhumanism
documents in a separate posting.

  [Edgar Allen Poe poem]: http://www.online-literature.com/poe/575/
  [Negative Love by John Donne]: http://www.online-literature.com/donne/382/
