Title: The Internalization of the Apocalypse: Subjectivity as a Fulcrum
Date: 2010-11-22 18:44
Author: isis
Category: etc
Tags: gender identity, John Kucich, masochism, power structures, sadomasochism, sexuality, subjectivity, temporality

On Reading John Kucich's “Melancholy Magic: Masochism, Stevenson,
Anti-Imperialism”:

Kucich asserts that specifically non-sexualized, preoedipal masochism is
the driving force of Victorian social change, not its sexualized
counterpart. As to the literary inception of this, he writes:
"Late-century writers like Stevenson, alert to the growth and increasing
diversity of the middle classes after mid-century, reworked the
ideological structures associated with preoedipal, nonsexualized
masochism to create alternative middle-class sujectivities. Tracing this
process of breakdown and revision in Stevenson can help clarify both the
function of masochism in mid-Victorian culture and masochism's
unprecedented appeal to late-century writers as a psychic trope that
enabled ideological renovations" (365). The relationship of the
preoedipal pathology to inherent psychological power relations within
general society is a complex subversion of eternal martyrdom: the
subject attains divinity through all-suffering, and, conversely, attains
all-suffering through divinity. Kucich explains this apparent paradox
with his statements:

"In preoedipal masochism, pain and suffering may be symptoms of
frustrated megalomania, but they can also help reconstruct fantasies of
omnipotence—sometimes through the complementary illusion that if
suffering could only be made permanent and limitless, then omnipotence
would be sustained...Moreover, fantasies of omnipotence thrive on what
one analyst calls 'the murder of reality' by eradicating the lines of
conceptual difference that defeat omnipotent control--differences of
gender, age, temporality, the line between wishes and satisfactions,
and, of course, the difference between pain and pleasure" (373-374).

However, Kucich departs at this point, offering, in a postmodern blight,
both sides of the theory derived from this implication, without making
an attempt at a nouvelle synthesis of establishing a supporting argument
for either side, noting that “...cultural theorists often imagine the
masochist either as a wizard of symbolic manipulations, annihilating
social order through the sleights-of-hand of sexual pleasure and
conceptual inversion, or as an abject martyr whose limitless
disempowerment reconfirms the omnipotence of those same social
systems--or, magically, as both at once" (376). Though, I might offer,
that with the terminally precarious balance of the global power
structures at present, *either* option should contribute to a feedback
loop yielding destabilization. In the first case, significant alteration
of subjective form leads to a resurgence of the irrational
subconsciousness as a governing force within the lives of individuals,
which destabilizes the sociopolitical infrastructure by decreasing the
legitimacy of its hegemony. In the latter instance, equipoise is
disturbed by the contrary: the legitimacy of the sociopolitical
structure is increased, leading to a more openly authoritarian form,
which eventually inspires social revolution. Thus, sadomasochistic
sexuality yields “...a self-exalting yet self-negatibg euphoria which
Henry Abelove terms 'the internalization of the apocalypse.'” (382). It
seems as if the scales of social order can be tipped either way, the
main fulcrum of which merely being the subjectivity of the citizens.

Kucich, John. "Melancholy Magic: Masochism, Stevenson,
Anti-Imperialism."*Nineteenth-Century Literature*, Vol. 56, No. 3, A
Celebration of the UCLA Sadlier

Collection, Part 2 (Dec., 2001), pp. 364-400. University of California
Press. 20 November 2010.

\<http://www.jstor.org/stable/3176957\>.
